# Overall Course Assessment

The purpose of this repository is to give you feedback on your overall grade in
Computer Science 202, Algorithm Analysis. There are no files inside of this
repository and you do not need to add any files to this repository.

Alternatively, the course instructor will add overall course assessment reports
to either the issue tracker or the pull requests tracker in this repository.
Students who have questions about their overall assessments are encouraged to
schedule a meeting with the course instructor during office hours.

As explained in the course syllabus on the course web site, the grade that a
student receives in this class will be based on the following categories. All
of these percentages are approximate and, if the need to do so presents itself,
the course instructor may, for instance, change the assigned percentages during
the academic semester.

| Category                 | Percentage |
|--------------------------|------------|
| Class Participation      |  10%       |
| Midterm Examination      |  15%       |
| Final Examination        |  15%       |
| Algorithm All-Hands      |  10%       |
| Algorithm Engineering    |  50%       |

These assessment categories have the following definitions:

- **Class Participation**: Students are expected to regularly attend and
actively participate in all of the class and laboratory sessions, as outlined
on the course schedule. After either an unexcused absence or a late attendance
to either a class or a laboratory session, a student's weekly class
participation grade will be reduced. Students who need to miss class or attend
class late for an excused reason should communicate their situation to the
course instructor in a timely fashion. A student's weekly class participation
grade will be reduced if they are frequently observed, during either class or
laboratory sessions, undertaking non-course-related activities like viewing
email, social media, or other content not about algorithm analysis. 

- **Midterm Examination**: The midterm examination is an online, executable,
and cumulative assessment covering all prior material from the course sessions,
as outlined on the course schedule. Unless prior arrangements are made with the
instructor, all students should use their computer to take these tests on the
scheduled date and to complete it in the stated location while taking no more
than the required amount of time. The midterm is an executable examination that
students will complete through the use of GitHub, VS Code, and the Python
programming tools installed on their laptops. Following the completion of the
midterm examination during a laboratory session, students will, during
algorithm all-hands sessions, collaboratively complete and present an
analytical and empirical evaluation of the performance of one component of
their examination. Students may use external sources, including artificial
intelligence coding assistants, during the completion of the midterm
examination provided that they cite these sources and explain how they used
them to complete the examination.

- **Final Examination**: The final examination is an online, executable,
cumulative assessment covering all of the material during all of the course
sessions, as outlined on the course schedule. Unless prior arrangements are
made with the instructor, all students should use their computer to take the
final examination on the scheduled date and to complete it in the stated
location while taking no more than the required amount of time. The cumulative
final is an executable examination that a student will complete through the use
of GitHub, VS Code, and the Python programming tools installed on their
laptops. Students may use external sources, including artificial intelligence
coding assistants, during the completion of the final examination provided that
they cite these sources and explain how they used them to complete the
examination.

- **Algorithm All-Hands**: These projects enable students to explore both the
scientific and engineering aspects of algorithm analysis, as outlined in the
course schedule. During the completion of a *scientific study* in the field of
algorithm analysis, students will complete and present a team-based project in
which they propose and then answer a research question about the performance of
a Python program. When completing an *engineering effort* in the field of
algorithm analysis, students will build and present a team-based project in
which they design, implement, document, release, and maintain software tools
that support the rigorous evaluation of the performance (e.g., time or space
overhead) of a Python program. Students may use external sources, including
artificial intelligence coding assistants, during the completion of an
algorithm all-hands project provided that they cite these sources and explain
how they used them to complete their part(s) of an algorithm all-hands project.

- **Algorithm Engineering Projects**: These projects enable students to explore
both the scientific and engineering aspects of algorithm analysis, as outlined
in the course schedule. During the completion of this two-week project,
students will design and implement a software system suitable for conducting
experiments and then use it answer research questions that connect to
previously discussed scientific content, as outlined in the course schedule.
After implementing the benchmarking system, students will propose and formally
state research questions and then discuss them with the course instructor
during a laboratory session. Finally, students will conduct experiments to
answer these research questions, collect data, analyze the results, and write a
report that explains the results in the context of the implemented system.
Students may use external sources, including artificial intelligence coding
assistants, during the completion of an algorithm all-hands project provided
that they cite these sources and explain how they used them to complete the
various components of an algorithm engineering project.

Please note that any overall score reported to this GitHub repository is
neither a final grade nor a commitment that a student will earn the reported
grade as their final grade. It is especially important to note that any
reported grade may be an over-approximation of a final grade since it could
include a perfect score for assessments that will be completed later in the
semester but for which the course instructor has not yet reported a grade. 
